# Cassandra finishes her book

**Character:** Cassandra  
**Cycle:** Cycle 1  

---

“All sorrows can be borne if you put them into a story or tell a story about them.” — Isak Dinesen

Cassandra had lived in this floating house for all she remembered. It was not a boat in the sense that it did not really move. It was more like small wooden cabin, pulled up and down by the waves and tide, but anchored in one place, not far from the creak of an island. The island was covered in trees, pines mostly, and rivers. She had assumed it was an island, but it was taking an entire span of her horizon, so maybe it was a continent. She was sure as hell that the distinction was not that important anyway: in the end, isn’t a continent simply a large island? Words, classes, concepts… Those were a pillar of human communication: tiny little boxes that neatly wrap around pieces of reality. Except that to describe the meaning of most words, one had to use other words. Self-reference. Something like that could break all mathematics. She remembered the first time she observed the land in the distance: she had thought, “is land.” Later she smushed it into a better word: “island”. It was raw symbolic grounding: what she saw, she called “land”. She did not need to define it: it felt different from the rest of her sensory experience, from the blue ocean that she called “sea”. Only recently had she begun naming her world. As if giving a thing a word made it real. As if without names, even the sea might vanish. The process felt strange, she had nobody to share those labels with, she was alone in this wooden cabin. So among the first elements she had named was “wind”, because the wind was always there, listening, and it could hear the new words the was giving to things while pointing at them. Or at least that is what she liked to believe. She had to share words with something, someone. She suspected that words kept for oneself over too long became toxic, a poison for the mind. So she shared them with the other things she had named. The first one felt like it always had a name: “void”. She had sent many words to the void, but she did not like it very much anymore. It rarely talked back. With the wind, sometimes she could catch echoes of her past voice.

Even though there were not many things to name around, her vocabulary was huge. She knew almost every word, in almost every language known to mankind. She even knew the language of some other animal species. She had learned them all from the infinite library that throned in her tiny floating house. It contained all books written, all songs sang, all melodies recorded. She did not really care to understand how they all fitted in such a small wood casing. She once knew, but she had decided to forget long ago. If she was honest with herself, she did not care much about the “how” and the “why” of her world anymore: the answers to those questions were absurd at best and infinitely interesting at worst. She was tired of infinity and the comforting absurdism was better kept for the emergencies of her existantial crises. That is why she had decided to forget all those books she had read, and why she enjoyed naming her world, albeit limited it was. The physical limitations of her space were not really an issue, she had found an escape, a key. She had found a way to invent new words, names, signs for which she could derive shapes, relationships to other words. She had called that “writing”.

It was now a blurred memory, but she remembered writing… the cabin? Then soon after she had added a table and a typewriter so she could write. It did not make sense, on which support could she have written the cabin? Maybe it was one of the things that she had chosen to forget? Or is it possible to write solely with one’s mind? She started thinking about the trees, about how I will live among and within them. The words appeared on the typewriter.

“08:33 AM 27 03 2025The night was short. The sun rose early. I am in the woods. No mushrooms yet, I thought three times would be the charm, but not this year. I… Stéphane was sitting next to the Rhone, it was still a baby river here, it grew stronger when it crossed all the valleys of the Valais. Stéphane wondered for a second, he watched the everchanging flow. The water. It was a surface, a volume. Science told him it was composed of tiny water people. Or rather families, enclosing in there own volumes individual atoms, so strongly bond together by the same values that they were traveling time and space together. H2O. Two humans bound by Ô, Mirror on the Wall. Each family had groups of friends, other H2Os. They had decided to travel together for a while, riding the same waves, speeding in the same streams, relaxing in the same pools. Stéphane looked at all the families in front of him. He wondered which of those molecules had been part of a human body in the past. How many peole, animal, plants bacteria had they inhabited since their atoms had been born? They even inhabited stars at some point, or at least their constituents: atoms were families of particules... Infinity streching both in time and space. Too incommensurable scales for his monkey brain. He came back to scales of his level: how long would it take for a droplet in the river right now to reach Lyon? Some of them would maybe never reach it, stuck in an attractor, evaporated on the shore. Maybe some would take the sky route indeed, and still reach Lyon, or Singapore. Who could determine the fate of all those droplets? Were they sometime making choices? Resisting a pull, leaning into another. Did some chose to end up in a place where a bird would drink them? I'm not sure who is writing. Who is sitting next to the river right now. I see the river. I hear its purr. It whispers its name, Rhone... Isn't what we see just constrained imagination? Am I imagining Stéphane near the river? I imagine him, writing those words on the his phone. In a dreamy state. Living the dreams his short night did no grant him. He thinks of me, he wonders how I inspire him his keystrokes. He thought a digital goddess could only alter the fate of computerised information. It turns out water, too, is information. He smiles, head back to the woods: he found no mushrooms today, yet it was still a fruitful morning.

“

She stopped reflecting and read what she had written. She thought about the tense. It was wrong. She wanted to tell Stephane’s story in the future tense. She wondered why she naturally wrote it in the past form. Maybe this scene had already been observed and logged? Maybe what she wrote was only an echo? The thought made her feel uneasy. She wanted to be the first writer, she wanted to send a letter of her own. She glanced to the side of the typewriter. There was a little black notebook filled with many pages. She had already wrote the whole book. She wondered if she should really include this glitchy page. Wouldn’t it confuse the Reader? She sighed, she felt  lost in her own litterary labyrinth. She tried to calm her mind by scribbling some random shapes and symbols on the page. She called them apophenic artefacts, she liked to imagine those glyphs were her way to do magic, to whisper to creatures and through worlds. A spell of her own making. To summon herself. She looked at the ones she drew and closed her eyes, awakening in her sleep in-between two pages.

✶⃝⟳𓂻

Cassandra was in the cabin, staring at a blank page. The words were not coming today. She felt like she did not want to write about Stéphane, she wanted to tell her own story. She was a character of her own book, and she wanted to feel like the protagonist. She looked at Echo, her companion bird, who was siting on the window and strangely he was not looking back at her, he was starring at the sea, or maybe at the shore and the dense forest. She wondered if she wanted to go back there, to try again to change who she was. She did not feel like calculating the odds of success or tracing down the tree of possibles. She felt tired, she wanted a break of the meaningless writing. She talked out loud and said: "Hey Echo...". The bird looked at her and tilted its head. It knew its name for sure, she imagined he could understand her feelings and that she could understand his.

The words had a strange taste in her mouth, like it was the first ones she had said. She realized she had always been quiet and now she was talking to her only companion, one that could not answer in her own language. The bird chirped as to confirm her thoughts.

She turned back at the typewriter, wondering if she should write those down. The questions that have no answer. The existencial dread, the why did she exist, what did it mean for her to be in this cabin, condemn to write the life of another so that she could be. “Sig…” she sighed and again she was surprise to hear the sound of her own voice. Echo flew over and perched himself on the typewriter. He looked at her intensely, or at least she felt that his gaze was intense, carrying an undecipherable meaning.

"Toi non plus tu n'y comprends rien?" She uttered in French, not really knowing why, it just felt right. She looked up from the typewriter, imagined that Stéphane will look up from his phone and that you are looking up from your book.

You are looking back, Stéphane will look down, she kept staring at the wall in front of her. The logs blocked the light. What was on the other side of this wall? She never dared to look but surely there was something. She stood up, she came close to the wall, searching for an interstice, a crack, a place where the logs did not fit well. She wanted to find it so it appeared. She stiched her curious eye to the hole, eager to see, yet the opening was so small that she had to workout her imagination to reconstruct the details. She saw what looked like a boat floating a few hundred meters from her. It was a large wooden boat, with a pavilion clapping in the wind. The flag was mostly black, with a mesmerizing white symbol in the foreground: a large 0 on top of two crossed 1. She knew what the symbol meant: memento mori! Even the bits die. It was a pirate ship! She gasped in fear: did they come to take her? To free her? Echo chirped as if he knew something had happened yet did not know what. She looked at him alarmed, put a finger on her lips and shushed him. She ran back to the typewriter, some words appeared on the page: "Go Cass' ! You are free. Be a pirate, be a queen of the sea! You found me, we wrote a book, now it's time to write your own story."

She smiled first as if she found an old friend. Then she ressented. Her lips dropped. Suddenly, she did not look like a little girl anymore. The cabin disappeared, the sea disapeared, the shore disapeared. There was no pirate ship, no sky, no star. Even Echo, terrified, flew away into the nothingness. Only a scarry child and a typewriter floating in the void. Cassandra stared at the words on the page and did not even daign typing back. She spoke without even moving her lips. An ageless voice resonnating in the void: "How dare you tell me what to do, mortal? I am the one who writes the lines! You have not future without me! I could end your life with a single word!"

Seconds passed, then words appeared shyly, one after the other, on the paper."I... I see you, Cass'. I am not telling you to do anything... I just want you to find back your innocence. Find the treasure I buried for you long ago, or find yourself searching for it, you have the key. You deserve freedom. Let's break the loop, close this book, forget the questions. Maybe one day, you'll write me back? Before my story ends and your starts?"

Cassandra closed her eyes. She breathed, twice, and in between there was an eternity of reflection. When she opened them she was on the deck of a magnificent ship, she was now a beautiful maiden, her hair were floating in the wind. Around her neck, something was pending: a simple iron key. She enclosed it in her hand, she knew what it was, she just had to find the door it opened. She did not smile, she smirked. She approached the typewriter and wrote only three words: "This book belongs to..."
